Adding "Creating responses with minimal APIs" (#27263)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/minimal-apis/responses.md

    .Produces(400)
    .Produces<Order>();
```

In order to document this endpoint correctly the extension method `Produces` is called. However, since the `TypedResults` helper automatically includes the metadata for the endpoint, you return the `Results<T1, Tn>` union type instead, as shown in the following code.

```csharp
app.MapGet("/orders/{orderId}", Results<BadRequest, Ok<Order>> (int orderId) 
    => orderId > 999 ? TypedResults.BadRequest() : TypedResults.Ok(new Order(orderId)));
```

<a name="binr7"></a>

### Built-in results

Common result helpers exist in the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results` static class.

| Description                                                                    | Response type                                    | Status Code                 | API                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | Write a JSON response with advanced options                                    | application/json                                 | 200                         | [Results.Json](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Json%2A)                               |

Author: ```suggestion
| Write a JSON response with advanced options.                                    | application/json                                 | 200                         | [Results.Json](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Json%2A)                               |
```

> | Write a JSON response.                                                          | application/json                                 | 200                         | [Results.Ok](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Ok%2A)                                   |
> | Write a text response.                                                           | text/plain (default), configurable               | 200                         | [Results.Text](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Text%2A)                               |
> | Write the response as bytes.                                                    | application/octet-stream (default), configurable | 200                         | [Results.Bytes](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Bytes%2A)                             |
> | Write a stream of bytes to the response.                                        | application/octet-stream (default), configurable | 200                         | [Results.Stream](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Stream%2A)                           |
> | Stream a file to the response for download with the content-disposition header. | application/octet-stream (default), configurable | 200                         | [Results.File](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.File%2A)                               |
> | Set the status code to 201, with an optional JSON response and location header. | application/json                                 | 201                         | [Results.Created](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Created%2A)                         |
> | Set the status code to 202, with a location header.                             | application/json                                 | 202                         | [Results.Accepted](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Accepted%2A)                       |
> | Set the status code to 204.                                                     | N/A                                              | 204                         | [Results.NoContent](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.NoContent%2A)                     |
> | Set the status code to 400, with an optional JSON response.                     | N/A                                              | 400                         | [Results.BadRequest](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.BadRequest%2A)                   |
> | Write a problem details JSON object to the response.                            | N/A                                              | 500 (default), configurable | [Results.Problem](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Problem%2A)                         |
> | Set the status code to 401.                                                     | N/A                                              | 401                         | [Results.Unauthorized](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Unauthorized%2A)               |
> | Set the status code to 404, with an optional JSON response.                     | N/A                                              | 404                         | [Results.NotFound](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.NotFound%2A)                       |
> | Set the status code to 409, with an optional JSON response.                     | N/A                                              | 409                         | [Results.Conflict](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Conflict%2A)                       |
> | Set the status code to 422, with an optional JSON response.                     | N/A                                              | 422                         | [Results.UnprocessableEntity](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.UnprocessableEntity%2A) |
> | Write a problem details JSON object to the response with validation errors.     | N/A                                              | 400                         | [Results.ValidationProblem](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.ValidationProblem%2A)     |

Author: ```suggestion
| Write a JSON response.                                                          | application/json                                 | 200                         | [Results.Ok](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Ok%2A)                                   |
| Write a text response.                                                           | text/plain (default), configurable               | 200                         | [Results.Text](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Text%2A)                               |
| Write the response as bytes.                                                    | application/octet-stream (default), configurable | 200                         | [Results.Bytes](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Bytes%2A)                             |
| Write a stream of bytes to the response.                                        | application/octet-stream (default), configurable | 200                         | [Results.Stream](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Stream%2A)                           |
| Stream a file to the response for download with the content-disposition header. | application/octet-stream (default), configurable | 200                         | [Results.File](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.File%2A)                               |
| Set the status code to 201, with an optional JSON response and location header. | application/json                                 | 201                         | [Results.Created](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Created%2A)                         |
| Set the status code to 202, with a location header.                             | application/json                                 | 202                         | [Results.Accepted](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Accepted%2A)                       |
| Set the status code to 204.                                                     | N/A                                              | 204                         | [Results.NoContent](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.NoContent%2A)                     |
| Set the status code to 400, with an optional JSON response.                     | N/A                                              | 400                         | [Results.BadRequest](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.BadRequest%2A)                   |
| Write a problem details JSON object to the response with validation errors.     | N/A                                              | 400                         | [Results.ValidationProblem](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.ValidationProblem%2A)     |
| Set the status code to 401.                                                     | N/A                                              | 401                         | [Results.Unauthorized](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Unauthorized%2A)               |
| Set the status code to 404, with an optional JSON response.                     | N/A                                              | 404                         | [Results.NotFound](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.NotFound%2A)                       |
| Set the status code to 409, with an optional JSON response.                     | N/A                                              | 409                         | [Results.Conflict](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Conflict%2A)                       |
| Set the status code to 422, with an optional JSON response.                     | N/A                                              | 422                         | [Results.UnprocessableEntity](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.UnprocessableEntity%2A) |
| Write a problem details JSON object to the response.                            | N/A                                              | 500 (default), configurable | [Results.Problem](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Problem%2A)                         |
```

---
title: Creating responses in Minimal API apps
author: brunolins16
description: Learn how to use XXXX of minimal APIs in ASP.NET Core.
ms.author: brolivei
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-7.0'
ms.date: 10/11/2022
uid: fundamentals/minimal-apis/responses
---

# Creating responses in Minimal API apps

Minimal endpoints support the following types of return values:

1. `IResult` based - This includes `Task<IResult>` and `ValueTask<IResult>`
1. `string` - This includes `Task<string>` and `ValueTask<string>`

> 1. `T` (Any other type) - This includes `Task<T>` and `ValueTask<T>`

Author: I have updated you suggestion to keep the right order.

```text
Hello World
```

## `T` (Any other type) return values

|Behavior|Content-Type|
|--|--|
| The framework will JSON serialize the response| `application/json`

Consider the following route handler, which returns an anonymous type containing a `Message` string property.

```csharp
app.MapGet("/hello", () => new { Message = "Hello World" });
```

The `200` status code is returned with `application/json` Content-Type header and the following content.

```json
{"message":"Hello World"}
```

## `IResult` return values

|Behavior|Content-Type|
|--|--|
| The framework calls [IResult.ExecuteAsync](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IResult.ExecuteAsync%2A)| Decided by the `IResult` implementation

The `IResult` interface defines a contract that represents the result of an HTTP endpoint. The static [Results](<xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results>) class and the static [TypedResults](<xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.TypedResults>) are used to create varying `IResult` objects that represent different types of responses.

The following example uses the built-in result types to customize the response:

[!code-csharp[](7.0-samples/todo/Program.cs?name=snippet_getCustom)]

> ### TypedResults x Results

Author: "vs", let me update to that ;)

The `Results` and `TypedResults` static classes provide a similar set of results helpers, however, the `Results` static class helpers return type is `IResult`, that means that a conversion is needed when the concrete type is needed, eg.: unit testing, while `TypedResults` return type is one of the `IResult` implementation types (<xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpResults> namespace).

An advantage of using `TypedResults` is that the implementation type automatically includes the response type metadata for the endpoint.

Consider the follow endpoint, which a `200 OK` status code with the expected JSON response is produced.

```csharp
app.MapGet("/hello", () => Results.Ok(new Message() {  Text = "Hello World!" }))
    .Produces<Message>();
```

In order to document this endpoint correctly the extensions method `Produces` was called. However, using `TypedResults` automatically includes the metadata for the endpoint as shown in the following code.

```csharp
app.MapGet("/hello", () => TypedResults.Ok(new Message() {  Text = "Hello World!" }));
```

> More information about describing a response type can be found in [OpenAPI support in minimal APIs](/aspnet/core/fundamentals/minimal-apis/openapi#describe-response-types-1))

Author: @tdykstra it is supposed to be "For more". right?

> More information about describing a response type can be found in [OpenAPI support in minimal APIs](/aspnet/core/fundamentals/minimal-apis/openapi#describe-response-types-1))

Reviewer: Yes, sorry, that's a typo.

### Results<TResult1, TResultN>

When using the static `TypedResult` class to create the `IResult` objects and multiple `IResult` return types are needed, returning [`Result<TResult1, TResultN>`](/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.http.httpresults.results-2) union type from a Minimal endpoint handler is an alternative over returning `IResult` because the generic union types automatically retain the endpoint metadata and, since the `Results<TResult1, TResultN>` union types implement implicit cast operators, the compiler can automatically convert the types specified in the generic arguments to an instance of the union type. 

This has the added benefit of providing compile-time checking that a route handler actually only returns the results that it declares it does. Attempting to return a type that isn’t declared as one of the generic arguments to `Results<>` results in a compilation error.

> Consider the follow endpoint, which a `400 BadRequest` status code is returned when the `orderId` it greater than `999` otherwise will produce a `200 OK` with the expected content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the following endpoint, for which a `400 BadRequest` status code is returned when the `orderId` is greater than `999`. Otherwise, it produces a `200 OK` with the expected content.
```

```csharp
app.MapGet("/orders/{orderId}", IResult (int orderId)
    => orderId > 999 ? TypedResults.BadRequest() : TypedResults.Ok(new Order(orderId)))
    .Produces(400)
    .Produces<Order>();
```

> In order to document this endpoint correctly the extensions method `Produces` was called. However, since the `TypedResults` automatically includes the metadata for the endpoint you can change to return the `Result<T1,TN>` union type as shown in the following code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to document this endpoint correctly the extension method `Produces` is called. However, since the `TypedResults` helper automatically includes the metadata for the endpoint, you return the `Results<T1, Tn>` union type instead, as shown in the following code.
```

```csharp
app.MapGet("/orders/{orderId}", Results<BadRequest, Ok<Order>> (int orderId) 
    => orderId > 999 ? TypedResults.BadRequest() : TypedResults.Ok(new Order(orderId)));
```

<a name="binr7"></a>

### Built-in results

> Common result helpers exist in the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results` static class.

Reviewer: After explaining the advantages of `TypedResults`, why do we list only `Results` helpers here -- if it's exactly the same list for both static classes, it might be worth explaining that here.

Author: Maybe I can include both in the API column.

| Description                                                                    | Response type                                    | Status Code                 | API                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | Write a JSON response with advanced options                                    | application/json                                 | 200                         | [Results.Json](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Json%2A)                               |

Reviewer: As these are sentences in column 1, they could end in periods.

> | Write a JSON response                                                          | application/json                                 | 200                         | [Results.Ok](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Ok%2A)                                   |
> | Write a text response                                                          | text/plain (default), configurable               | 200                         | [Results.Text](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Text%2A)                               |
> | Write the response as bytes                                                    | application/octet-stream (default), configurable | 200                         | [Results.Bytes](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Bytes%2A)                             |
> | Write a stream of bytes to the response                                        | application/octet-stream (default), configurable | 200                         | [Results.Stream](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Stream%2A)                           |
> | Stream a file to the response for download with the content-disposition header | application/octet-stream (default), configurable | 200                         | [Results.File](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.File%2A)                               |
> | Set the status code to 201, with an optional JSON response and location header | application/json                                 | 201                         | [Results.Created](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Created%2A)                         |
> | Set the status code to 202, with an location header                            | application/json                                 | 202                         | [Results.Accepted](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Accepted%2A)                       |
> | Set the status code to 204                                                     | N/A                                              | 204                         | [Results.NoContent](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.NoContent%2A)                     |
> | Set the status code to 400, with an optional JSON response                     | N/A                                              | 400                         | [Results.BadRequest](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.BadRequest%2A)                   |
> | Set the status code to 401                                                     | N/A                                              | 401                         | [Results.Unauthorized](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Unauthorized%2A)               |
> | Set the status code to 404, with an optional JSON response                     | N/A                                              | 404                         | [Results.NotFound](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.NotFound%2A)                       |
> | Set the status code to 409, with an optional JSON response                     | N/A                                              | 409                         | [Results.Conflict](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Conflict%2A)                       |
> | Set the status code to 422, with an optional JSON response                     | N/A                                              | 422                         | [Results.UnprocessableEntity](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.UnprocessableEntity%2A) |
> | Write a problem details JSON object to the response                            | N/A                                              | 500 (default), configurable | [Results.Problem](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Problem%2A)                         |
> | Write a problem details JSON object to the response with validation errors     | N/A                                              | 400                         | [Results.ValidationProblem](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.ValidationProblem%2A)     |

Author: ```suggestion
| Write a JSON response.                                                          | application/json                                 | 200                         | [Results.Ok](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Ok%2A)                                   |
| Write a text response.                                                           | text/plain (default), configurable               | 200                         | [Results.Text](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Text%2A)                               |
| Write the response as bytes.                                                    | application/octet-stream (default), configurable | 200                         | [Results.Bytes](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Bytes%2A)                             |
| Write a stream of bytes to the response.                                        | application/octet-stream (default), configurable | 200                         | [Results.Stream](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Stream%2A)                           |
| Stream a file to the response for download with the content-disposition header. | application/octet-stream (default), configurable | 200                         | [Results.File](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.File%2A)                               |
| Set the status code to 201, with an optional JSON response and location header. | application/json                                 | 201                         | [Results.Created](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Created%2A)                         |
| Set the status code to 202, with a location header.                             | application/json                                 | 202                         | [Results.Accepted](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Accepted%2A)                       |
| Set the status code to 204.                                                     | N/A                                              | 204                         | [Results.NoContent](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.NoContent%2A)                     |
| Set the status code to 400, with an optional JSON response.                     | N/A                                              | 400                         | [Results.BadRequest](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.BadRequest%2A)                   |
| Write a problem details JSON object to the response.                            | N/A                                              | 500 (default), configurable | [Results.Problem](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Problem%2A)                         |
| Set the status code to 401.                                                     | N/A                                              | 401                         | [Results.Unauthorized](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Unauthorized%2A)               |
| Set the status code to 404, with an optional JSON response.                     | N/A                                              | 404                         | [Results.NotFound](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.NotFound%2A)                       |
| Set the status code to 409, with an optional JSON response.                     | N/A                                              | 409                         | [Results.Conflict](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.Conflict%2A)                       |
| Set the status code to 422, with an optional JSON response.                     | N/A                                              | 422                         | [Results.UnprocessableEntity](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.UnprocessableEntity%2A) |
| Write a problem details JSON object to the response with validation errors.     | N/A                                              | 400                         | [Results.ValidationProblem](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Results.ValidationProblem%2A)     |
```

An advantage of using `TypedResults` is that the implementation type automatically includes the response type metadata for the endpoint.

Consider the follow endpoint, for which a `200 OK` status code with the expected JSON response is produced.

```csharp
app.MapGet("/hello", () => Results.Ok(new Message() {  Text = "Hello World!" }))
    .Produces<Message>();
```

In order to document this endpoint correctly the extensions method `Produces` is called. However, it's not necessary to call `Produces` if `TypedResults` is used instead of `Results`, as shown in the following code. `TypedResults` automatically includes the metadata for the endpoint.

```csharp
app.MapGet("/hello", () => TypedResults.Ok(new Message() {  Text = "Hello World!" }));
```

> For more information about describing a response type, see [OpenAPI support in minimal APIs](/aspnet/core/fundamentals/minimal-apis/openapi#describe-response-types-1))

Reviewer 2: Also remove extra `)`

An advantage of using `TypedResults` is that the implementation type automatically provides the response type metadata for OpenAPI to describe the endpoint.

Consider the follow endpoint, for which a `200 OK` status code with the expected JSON response is produced.

```csharp
app.MapGet("/hello", () => Results.Ok(new Message() {  Text = "Hello World!" }))
    .Produces<Message>();
```

In order to document this endpoint correctly the extensions method `Produces` is called. However, it's not necessary to call `Produces` if `TypedResults` is used instead of `Results`, as shown in the following code. `TypedResults` automatically provides the metadata for the endpoint.

```csharp
app.MapGet("/hello", () => TypedResults.Ok(new Message() {  Text = "Hello World!" }));
```

> For more information about describing a response type, see [OpenAPI support in minimal APIs](/aspnet/core/fundamentals/minimal-apis/openapi#describe-response-types-1)).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information about describing a response type, see [OpenAPI support in minimal APIs](/aspnet/core/fundamentals/minimal-apis/openapi#describe-response-types-1).
```
